V2 workshop (#52)
substrate-developer-hub/utxo-workshop: README.md

# UTXO on Substrate

A UTXO chain implementation on Substrate, with two self-guided workshops.Original [UXTO inspiration](https://github.com/0x7CFE/substrate-node-template/tree/utxo) by [Dmitriy Kashitsyn](https://github.com/0x7CFE).

Substrate Version: `pre-v2.0`. For educational purposes only. 

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#Installation): Setting up Rust & Substrate dependencies

- [UI Demo](#UI-Demo): Demoing this UTXO implementation in a simple UI

- [Beginner Workshop](#Beginner-Workshop): A self guided, 1 hour workshop that familiarizes you with Substrate basics

- [Advanced Workshop](#Advanced-Workshop): A self guided, 2 hour video tutorial, that teaches you how to build this UTXO blockchain from scratch

- [Helpful Resources](#Helpful-Resources): Documentation and references if you get stuck in the workshops

## Installation

> ### 1. Install or update Rust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Install or Update Rust
```

rustup update stable
cargo install --git https://github.com/alexcrichton/wasm-gc
```

### 2. Clone this workshop

Clone your copy of the workshop codebase 

```zsh
git clone https://github.com/substrate-developer-hub/utxo-workshop.git
```

## UI Demo

In this UI demo, you will interact with the UTXO blockchain via the [Polkadot UI](https://substrate.dev/docs/en/development/front-end/polkadot-js). 

The following demo takes you through a scenario where: 
- Alice already owns a UTXO of value 100 upon genesis
- Alice sends Bob a UTXO with value 50, tipping the remainder to validators

1. Compile and build a release in dev mode
```
# Initialize your Wasm Build environment:
./scripts/init.sh

# Build Wasm and native code:
cargo build --release
```

2. Start your node & start producing blocks:
```zsh
./target/release/utxo-workshop --dev

# If you already modified state, run this to purge the chain
./target/release/utxo-workshop purge-chain --dev
```

> 3. In the console, notice the helper printouts. In particular, notice the default account `Alice` was already has `100 UTXO` upon the genesis block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In the console, notice the helper printouts. In particular, notice the default account `Alice` already has `100 UTXO` from the genesis block.
```

4. Open [Polkadot JS](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/settings), making sure the client is connected to your local node by going to Settings > General, and selecting `Local Node` in the `remote node` dropdown.

> 5. **Declare the custom datatypes in PolkadotJS**, since the JS client cannot authomatically infer this from the UTXO module. Go to Settings > Developer tab and paste in the following JSON:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Declare the custom datatypes in PolkadotJS**, since the JS client cannot authomatically infer this from the UTXO pallet. Go to Settings > Developer tab and paste in the following JSON:
```

}
```

> 6. **Check that Alice already has 100 UTXO at genesis**. In `Chain State` > `Storage`, select `utxoModule`. Input the hash `0x76584168d10a20084082ed80ec71e2a783abbb8dd6eb9d4893b089228498e9ff`. Click the `+` notation to query blockchain state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. **Confirm that Alice already has 100 UTXO at genesis**. In `Chain State` > `Storage`, select `utxoModule`. Input the hash `0x76584168d10a20084082ed80ec71e2a783abbb8dd6eb9d4893b089228498e9ff`. Click the `+` notation to query blockchain state.
```

Just a thought since we already observed Alice's genesis UTXO in the node log.

    - outpoint: `0x76584168d10a20084082ed80ec71e2a783abbb8dd6eb9d4893b089228498e9ff`
    - sigscript: `0x6ceab99702c60b111c12c2867679c5555c00dcd4d6ab40efa01e3a65083bfb6c6f5c1ed3356d7141ec61894153b8ba7fb413bf1e990ed99ff6dee5da1b24fd83`
    - value: `50`
    - pubkey: `0x8eaf04151687736326c9fea17e25fc5287613693c912909cb226aa4794f26a48`

    Send this as an `unsigned` transaction. With UTXO blockchains, the proof is already in the `sigscript` input.

8. **Verify that your transaction succeeded**. In `Chain State`, look up the newly created UTXO hash: `0xdbc75ab8ee9b83dcbcea4695f9c42754d94e92c3c397d63b1bc627c2a2ef94e6` to verify that a new UTXO of 50, belonging to Bob, now exists! Also you can verify that Alice's original UTXO has been spent and no longer exists in UtxoStore.

*Coming soon: A video walkthrough of the above demo.*

## Beginner Workshop
**Estimated time**: 2 hours

In this workshop, you will: 
- Get familiar with basic Rust and Substrate functionality
- Prevent malicious users from sending bad UTXO transactions

Your challenge is to fix the code such that: 

> 1. The Rust compiler compiles without errors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. It compiles without errors
```
